---
layout: post
title: "Computation Fluid Dynamics - Theory"
subtitle: "Deriving theory and implementation of a CFD problem"
background: '/img/posts/01.jpg'
---

{% katexmm %}
# Computational Fluid Dynamics
Lizzette Corrales

Mentor: Omar Bentancourt

This guide is intended to derive and explain an implementation of a 2D fluids simulation. As an extension a 3D version of the simualtion will also be explained.

## Questions for Omar:
- What is going on here?, what is my vsstudio code using
- how are these extensions actually running
- what can I do to faciliate this code?
- How can I back up these files to the internet? Github?
  
  - idk about the finites volume method really 
  - what is junk and what is realuvene tiwht the report how indepth do I need to go?
  - I ve ssen other numerical mehtods, is it worthwhile to compare??????????

- What can I omit from the report? Basic Math Principles? Gloss over? Do I just cite continumm mechanics?

- What is the difference between collated and from scratch?
- How can I convert the github version to the markdown?
- 

Personal Notes: 
Cannot import packages

## Theoretical Background

## Reynolds Transpot Thereom & Relationship 

In order to relate the governing equations of an amount of mass through time, it is neccesary to use the Reynolds Transport Theorem. The Reynolds Transport Therorem is used to connect a Lagrangian system and Eulerian control volume. Recall that a Lagranigian system observes moving fluids by moving along with it. Whereas, an Eulerian observes from a fixed control volume, where fluid may flow in and out. There realtionship is expressed as follows:


$$
\frac{d\phi}{dt} = \frac{d}{dt} \int_{V} \rho \tilde{\phi} \,dV +\int_{V} \rho \tilde{\phi} 
\hat{\bf v} \cdot \hat{\bf n} \,dV 
\tag{1}
$$

The left hand side of 
Where $\phi$ represents a specific extensive property, a property depandent on the size or quanity of a system such as mass, momentum or energy. 
Moreover, $\tilde{\phi}$ represents the intensive properties, independant of size or quanity of a system, expressed as $\frac{\phi}{m}$ where $m$ is the mass of the system. 

This theorem relates the rate of change of an extensive property to the time rate of change in the Eulerian control volume added to the amount flowing out.

## Governing Equations with respect to Intensive Properties

 According to continummn mechanics, conservation equations all defined within a Lagragian system must be must be satified for physical reality. These are the fundamental physical princples that describe body motion and deformation.

1. Conservation of Mass
2. Conservation of Momentum
3. Conservation of Energy

### Table of Governing Equations Formulations


| Property ($\phi$)| Conservation Equation | RTT Substitution|
| :-------- | :---------- | :---------- |
| mass ($m$) | $\frac{dm}{dt} = 0$ | $\frac{d}{dt}\int_V\rho dV + \int_A\rho\vec{v}\cdot\vec{n}dA = 0$ |
| momentum ($\bf v$) | $\frac{dm\vec{v}}{dt} = \int_A \vec{F}dA + \int_V\vec{g}\rho dV$ | $\frac{dm\vec{v}}{dt} = -\int_A\boldsymbol{\tau}\cdot\vec{n}dA -\int_AP\boldsymbol{\delta}\cdot\vec{n}dA+ \int_V\vec{g}\rho dV$ | $\frac{d}{dt}\int_V\rho\vec{v}dV + \int_A\rho\vec{v}\vec{v}\cdot\vec{n}dA = -\int_A\boldsymbol{\tau}\cdot\vec{n}dA -\int_AP\boldsymbol{\delta}\cdot\vec{n}dA+ \int_V\\vec{g}\\rho dV$ |
| Energy ($E$) | 

Check why energy is mentioned, take out
***

To determine a solution numerically is is convinet to express these equations as partial differecne equations rather than integrals.

## Equation of State & Constituitive Relations & Assumptions
- compressibility
- boundary conditions
- Type of fluid

## Numerical Solution
### Finite Volume Method

The Finite Volume method is an a numerical way to convert the governing partial differencial equations into a matrix equation ${\bf Ax=b}$ where 

[finite vol vid](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E9_kyXjtRHc)

### Alternatives and there Advantages/Disadvantages
# Numerical Example: Lid - Driven Cavity
{% endkatexmm %}